README.md, before:

# To start a GitHub Local repository:
- Use command `git init` to start a git local repository
- `git config --global user.name "Your name o nickname"` This command is used to show your name, to other people when these people show your repository
- `git config --global user.email "Your@email.com"` This command is used to show your email, to other people when these people show your repository

- `git config --global -e` This command show you the config of your repo information

- Create your .gitignore file (vi, nano, sublime text, etc)
- Add your files to ignore, like config files or files that you have to, you can use this webpage to do it: https://www.gitignore.io 

# To start a GitHub Remote repository:

- git init
- git add README.md
- git commit -m "your first commit"
- git remote add origin 'your remote gitHub or Bitbucket repository'  (https://github.com/AlanCasasArevalo/GitHubCheatSheet.git)
- git push -u origin master

# We are ready to start to work with git locally and remotely 

## To show stage area status:
- `git status` This command shows you all your files into stage area
- `git status -s` This command shows you all your files into stage area, with short information

## To add files to stage area we could use commands:
- `git add .` This command add all your files and folders into stage area
- `git add --all` This command add all your files and folders into stage area
- `git add -A` This command add all your files and folders into stage area
- `git add *.extensionToAdd` This command add all your files with specific extension in your folder into stage area
- `git add "*.extensionToAdd"` This command add all your files with specific extension stage area
- `git add FileToAdd` This command add specific file into stage area
- `git add FileToAdd FileToAdd` This command add specific file or files into stage area
- `git add folderToAdd/` This command add specific folder into stage area
- `git add folderToAdd/*.extensionToAdd` This command add specific extension folder into stage area
- `git add folderToAdd/ folderToAdd/` This command add specific folder or folders into stage area

## To commit when we want to, we could use commands:
- `git commit -m "Message to commit"`
- `git commit` This command open your default editor to write your custom commit
- `git commit -am "Message to commit"` This command add all your files to stage area and commit the changes into your default editor. 

- `git commit -am` This command add all your files to stage area and commit the changes

## To change a wrong commit you could do:
- `git commit --amend -m "Message to commit"` this commit just modify message commit anything else

- `git commit --amend` This command open your default editor to write your custom commit, this commit just modify message commit anything else

## To reset your work
- `git -- .` this command reset all work to before state, include if you delete all your work into trash

- `git checkout -- .` this command reset all work to before state, include if you delete all your work into trash

- `git reset --soft HEAD^` This command do a reset to an before state, but without files or folder modifications

- `git reset --soft (HASHLOG)` This command do a reset to an before state, but without files or folder modifications

- `git reset --hard (HASHLOG)` This command reset all work to before state modifing all files or folders

## To move into your repository
- `git mv "FileFromMoveOrRename" "FileToMoveOrRename"` this file move the file and rename the file if you want 

## To delete files or folders 
- `git rm "FileToDelete"` this command delete the file from stage area but to delete if necessary to commit

## To update files or folders
- `git add -u` This file update our file or folder but you have to commit if you want really update in repository

## To show before commits
- `git log` this command shows you before commits and you could move into them with HASHLOG
- `git log --oneline` this command shows you short description of before commits, and you could move into them with HASHLOG
- `git log --oneline --decorate --all --graph` this command shows you short description of before commits, and you could move into them with HASHLOG

- `git reglog` his command shows you before commits and you could move into them with HASHLOG in all times

## This is an example of hash commit

![](https://github.com/AlanCasasArevalo/GitHubCheatSheet/blob/master/commit-hash.png)

## To create global alias:
- `git config --global alias.lg "log --oneline --decorate --all --graph"` this command create an alias file alias.* and when we want to call ***git log --oneline --decorate --all --graph*** command we just to write `git lg`

## To know changes:
- `git diff` This command shows us changes between before eat 😜    for example 
- `git diff --staged` This command shows us changes between before go home 😜    for example 

## Branchs
- `git branch branchToCreate` This command create a new branch to work, and work do it in that branch is independent of master branch
- `git diff branchFromCheck branchToCheck` This command shows us difference between 2 branchs.
- `git merge branchToMerge` this command merge branch that we want to merge into current branch if the actual branch and branchToMerge have not conflicts between they, this is a Fast Forward, that means is not necessary to do anything special. 
- `git branch -d branchToDelete` This command delete branch that you want
- `git checkout -b branchToCreateAndToMove` This command create new branch and move HEAD to this new branch
## Tags
- `git tag` shows us all tags.
- `git tag TagToCreate` This command add new tag in repo
- `git tag -d TagToDelete` This command delete tag 
- `git tag -a vXXX -m "Message you want to add"` this command add a version and message, the version system is your choice
- `git tag -a vXXX (HASHLOG) -m "Message you want to add"` this command add a version in

## Stash
- `git stash` This command permit us to put in a temporally repo space, and whe can move to other branch and do something, when we finished our branch task, then to continue with this work what is in temporally space repo. This stash has a HASHLOG and we can see stash if we use `git log`.

- `git stash list` this command give us a stash list if there has any stash and we can navigate between HASHLOG

- `git stash pop` This command recover the temporal work into your branch, you can create other branch and to put this temporal work into it 

- `git stash drop` This command remove the temporal work.

Commit message:

more information about stash into README.md

README.md, after:

# To start a GitHub Local repository:
- Use command `git init` to start a git local repository
- `git config --global user.name "Your name o nickname"` This command is used to show your name, to other people when these people show your repository
- `git config --global user.email "Your@email.com"` This command is used to show your email, to other people when these people show your repository

- `git config --global -e` This command show you the config of your repo information

- Create your .gitignore file (vi, nano, sublime text, etc)
- Add your files to ignore, like config files or files that you have to, you can use this webpage to do it: https://www.gitignore.io 

# To start a GitHub Remote repository:

- git init
- git add README.md
- git commit -m "your first commit"
- git remote add origin 'your remote gitHub or Bitbucket repository'  (https://github.com/AlanCasasArevalo/GitHubCheatSheet.git)
- git push -u origin master

# We are ready to start to work with git locally and remotely 

## To show stage area status:
- `git status` This command shows you all your files into stage area
- `git status -s` This command shows you all your files into stage area, with short information

## To add files to stage area we could use commands:
- `git add .` This command add all your files and folders into stage area
- `git add --all` This command add all your files and folders into stage area
- `git add -A` This command add all your files and folders into stage area
- `git add *.extensionToAdd` This command add all your files with specific extension in your folder into stage area
- `git add "*.extensionToAdd"` This command add all your files with specific extension stage area
- `git add FileToAdd` This command add specific file into stage area
- `git add FileToAdd FileToAdd` This command add specific file or files into stage area
- `git add folderToAdd/` This command add specific folder into stage area
- `git add folderToAdd/*.extensionToAdd` This command add specific extension folder into stage area
- `git add folderToAdd/ folderToAdd/` This command add specific folder or folders into stage area

## To commit when we want to, we could use commands:
- `git commit -m "Message to commit"`
- `git commit` This command open your default editor to write your custom commit
- `git commit -am "Message to commit"` This command add all your files to stage area and commit the changes into your default editor. 

- `git commit -am` This command add all your files to stage area and commit the changes

## To change a wrong commit you could do:
- `git commit --amend -m "Message to commit"` this commit just modify message commit anything else

- `git commit --amend` This command open your default editor to write your custom commit, this commit just modify message commit anything else

## To reset your work
- `git -- .` this command reset all work to before state, include if you delete all your work into trash

- `git checkout -- .` this command reset all work to before state, include if you delete all your work into trash

- `git reset --soft HEAD^` This command do a reset to an before state, but without files or folder modifications

- `git reset --soft (HASHLOG)` This command do a reset to an before state, but without files or folder modifications

- `git reset --hard (HASHLOG)` This command reset all work to before state modifing all files or folders

## To move into your repository
- `git mv "FileFromMoveOrRename" "FileToMoveOrRename"` this file move the file and rename the file if you want 

## To delete files or folders 
- `git rm "FileToDelete"` this command delete the file from stage area but to delete if necessary to commit

## To update files or folders
- `git add -u` This file update our file or folder but you have to commit if you want really update in repository

## To show before commits
- `git log` this command shows you before commits and you could move into them with HASHLOG
- `git log --oneline` this command shows you short description of before commits, and you could move into them with HASHLOG
- `git log --oneline --decorate --all --graph` this command shows you short description of before commits, and you could move into them with HASHLOG

- `git reglog` his command shows you before commits and you could move into them with HASHLOG in all times

## This is an example of hash commit

![](https://github.com/AlanCasasArevalo/GitHubCheatSheet/blob/master/commit-hash.png)

## To create global alias:
- `git config --global alias.lg "log --oneline --decorate --all --graph"` this command create an alias file alias.* and when we want to call ***git log --oneline --decorate --all --graph*** command we just to write `git lg`

## To know changes:
- `git diff` This command shows us changes between before eat 😜    for example 
- `git diff --staged` This command shows us changes between before go home 😜    for example 

## Branchs
- `git branch branchToCreate` This command create a new branch to work, and work do it in that branch is independent of master branch
- `git diff branchFromCheck branchToCheck` This command shows us difference between 2 branchs.
- `git merge branchToMerge` this command merge branch that we want to merge into current branch if the actual branch and branchToMerge have not conflicts between they, this is a Fast Forward, that means is not necessary to do anything special. 
- `git branch -d branchToDelete` This command delete branch that you want
- `git checkout -b branchToCreateAndToMove` This command create new branch and move HEAD to this new branch
## Tags
- `git tag` shows us all tags.
- `git tag TagToCreate` This command add new tag in repo
- `git tag -d TagToDelete` This command delete tag 
- `git tag -a vXXX -m "Message you want to add"` this command add a version and message, the version system is your choice
- `git tag -a vXXX (HASHLOG) -m "Message you want to add"` this command add a version in

## Stash
- `git stash` This command permit us to put in a temporally repo space, and whe can move to other branch and do something, when we finished our branch task, then to continue with this work what is in temporally space repo. This stash has a HASHLOG and we can see stash if we use `git log`.

- `git stash list` this command give us a stash list if there has any stash and we can navigate between HASHLOG

- `git stash list --stat` this command gives us more information about stash list

- `git show stash` this command shows us much more information about all changes in that list of temporal work

- `git show stash@{3}` this command shows us much more information about the expecificated stash 

- `git stash pop` This command recover the temporal work into your branch, you can create other branch and to put this temporal work into it 

- `git stash apply` This command takes the stash that we want and apply all work

- `git stash apply stash@{12}` This command takes the stash that we want to take this command needs the stash that you want to take from list of stash,  

- `git stash drop` This command remove the temporal work. This command just delete the first entrance 

- `git stash drop stash@{12}` This command remove the temporal work. This command delete the stash that we expecificated with the stash@{} 

- `git stash save` This command save changes, it's similar to git stash

- `git stash save --keep-index` this command save temporal work without stage area files, because this files are ready to be commited 

- `git stash save --include-untracked` this command add to temporal work including files or folder that git does not give follow

- `git stash save "Commit to this stash"` this command permit us to "commit" our stash to be more clear when we will want to search it 

- `git stash clear` this command delete all stash this command is DANGER because if you do it you will not be able to recover temporal works.
